# Blockchain Ideas

## Decentralized Peer Review

### Chrome Extension

* Chrome extension for arXiv.
* When you open a paper, it lets you type in a review and attach some reputation.
* Keep track of UTXO pool of reputations.
* No identities, but we can have a service where people can identify themselves if they choose.
* Every paper has some reputation that can be unlocked by reviewing.
* As consensus on paper shifts, stake placed on paper shifts.

### Tangle Reviewing

* To submit a paper you have to review 2 others.
* Reputation gets staked and stored as a weighted directed edge.
* Also when review, you look at all edges going into paper you are reviewing and update reputations.
* The first paper ever is called the 'Axiom' and it has all the rep in the network.
* When you review you claim some of the rep in the paper you are reviewing. Outcomes for reviewer $R$ evaluating paper $P$:

	| Review Decision | Review Quality| Desired Outcome |
	| ----------------| --------------| --------------- |
	| + / -        | Poor          |  $P$ not affected, $R$ punished.               |
	| +        | Good          |  some portion of $P$ rep transferred to $R$              |
	| -        | Good          |   $P$ punished, $R$ rewarded

	
* Submitting HAS to come at a substantial enough cost to prevent spamming the network.
* IOTA is Accounts based. You create a 'seed' which is the account password from which addresses and private keys can be generated. Accounts can have balances (in this case, REP). Maybe in order to create an account you need a valid email (institutional? do we want to limit participation? probably not).
* Governance idea: submit paper and two reviews. Also need to validate the reviews that your paper reviewed (or maybe just jone of them). Papers generate reputation. You can "burn" some reputation on a paper to get a share of the reputation generated by a paper. The amount of reputation received is proportional to the level of consensus regarding the quality of the paper and to the original stake. Reviews are binary: 0 (not accepting) or 1 (accepting). Submissions come with a hash of a full commentary review and paper which if not provided, the submission is deemed invalid.
* Talked to Peri. We decided to start very simple. No stakes, papers have some amount of reputation associated to them proportional to the reviews given to it. The author submits a paper by generating a private and public key and attaching the public key to the paper / signing it. The stake is the time it takes to write a paper of your own to submit and be able to review. If the reviewer provides bad reviews, he risks his paper being negatively affected.


### Similar projects

[2013 post proposing decentralized journal](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webpayments/2013Jan/0011.html)

[decentralized wikipedia](https://www.wired.com/story/everipedia-blockchain/)

[aletheia](https://github.com/aletheia-foundation)


## Blockchain + ML

### Unsupervised learning 
